docs/ros_packages.md, before:

# ROS Packages

RAI includes multiple configurable ROS 2 packages.

| Package                | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Documentation                                                  |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **rai_asr**            | Automatic Speech Recognition node utilizes a combination of voice activity detection (VAD) and a speech recognition model to transcribe spoken language into text using [openai-whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper). | [rai_asr](../src/rai_asr/README.md)                            |
| **rai_grounding_dino** | Package enabling use of [GroundingDINO](https://github.com/IDEA-Research/GroundingDINO) -- an open-set detection model with ROS 2.                                                                                           | [rai_grounding_dino](../src/rai_extensions/rai_grounding_dino) |
| **rai_interfaces**     | Definition of custom messages and services used in RAI.                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                |
| **rai_whoami**         | Configures and provides information about the robot identity.                                                                                                                                                                | [rai_whoami](create_robots_whoami.md)                          |
| **rai_bringup**        | Launch files to run RAI.                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                |

Commit message:

feat: Add NoMaD extension (#218)
Signed-off-by: Kacper Dąbrowski <kacper.dabrowski@robotec.ai>
Co-authored-by: Maciej Majek <46171033+maciejmajek@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/ros_packages.md, after:

# ROS Packages

RAI includes multiple configurable ROS 2 packages.

| Package                | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Documentation                                                  |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **rai_asr**            | Automatic Speech Recognition node utilizes a combination of voice activity detection (VAD) and a speech recognition model to transcribe spoken language into text using [openai-whisper](https://github.com/openai/whisper). | [rai_asr](../src/rai_asr/README.md)                            |
| **rai_grounding_dino** | Package enabling use of [GroundingDINO](https://github.com/IDEA-Research/GroundingDINO) -- an open-set detection model with ROS 2.                                                                                           | [rai_grounding_dino](../src/rai_extensions/rai_grounding_dino) |
| **rai_nomad**          | Package integrating [NoMaD](https://general-navigation-models.github.io/nomad/index.html) -- an exploration model with ROS2.                                                                                                 | [rai_nomad](../src/rai_extensions/rai_nomad)                   |
| **rai_interfaces**     | Definition of custom messages and services used in RAI.                                                                                                                                                                      |                                                                |
| **rai_whoami**         | Configures and provides information about the robot identity.                                                                                                                                                                | [rai_whoami](create_robots_whoami.md)                          |
| **rai_bringup**        | Launch files to run RAI.                                                                                                                                                                                                     |                                                                |
